# GAP Logo proposal

This is a proposal for a log for the [GAP computer algebra system](https://www.gap-system.org).

Source code is (lua)latex using TiKZ, which produces a PDF that can then be converted to other formats
such as PNG. 

## Preview

![Full GAP Logo](gaplogo.png)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
![Reduced GAP Logo](gaplogo-reduced.png)

Logo without text (e.g. for icons):

| 32x32  | 48x48 | 64x64 | 128x128 |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![GAP Icon 32x32](gaplogo-notext32.png "32x32") |  ![GAP Icon 48x48](gaplogo-notext48.png "48x48") | ![GAP Icon 64x64](gaplogo-notext64.png "64x64") | ![GAP Icon 128x128](gaplogo-notext128.png "128x128") |

## Rationale

The diagram in the left part is meant to indicate symmetry, here $S_3$ acting
on the leaf vertices of a symmetric graph, indicated by arrows suggesting
involutions swapping the leaves. The graph can also be interpreted as the
Dynkin diagram of type $D_3$, and then the group action is the triality
automorphism which plays an important role in algebriac Lie theory, finite
simple groups, geometry and more.

The letters GAP feature prominently and arranged vertically. Since GAP is also
a very famous fashion brand, I did not want to risk any chance of them being
confuse. The "GAP" text in the logo of the fashion company is always
horizontal, ours is vertical; they use a serif font, we use sans-serif; their
font is very narrow and tall, ours has almost square shapped letters.

In addition, in the full logo we spell out what the abbreviation GAP stands
for, which further prevents confusion, but also is helpful to convey clearly
what GAP is about. I also find the resulting look aesthetically pleasing, with
the gentle slope introduced by the increasing length of the words "Groups",
"Algorithms", and "Programming".

As font I chose the [Ubuntu Font](https://design.ubuntu.com/font/). It is
under a [liberal license](https://ubuntu.com/legal/font-licence) that is
compatible with the open source spirit of the GAP project. Its design blurb
states that it aims to "convey a precise, reliable and free attitude", which
of course fits well with GAP, and I happen to think it indeed achieves these
aims (but of course this is highly subjective).

But I wanted a no-frills sans-serif font with clean curves; I found the Ubuntu
font to be highly geometrical and it "fits" with the diagram part quite well.

I also experimented with using the mono spaced variant, "Ubuntu Mono", but in
the end found the look of the base font superior for our purposes.


## License

To be determined.
